so, if i re-write the code, the serial value stored in flash remains or not?

ChatGPT

Thought for 8 seconds

Yes, the serial number stored in flash memory using the Preferences library should remain intact when you rewrite or upload new code to your ESP32. The Preferences library utilizes the ESP32's Non-Volatile Storage (NVS), which is designed to retain data across resets, power cycles, and even code uploads.

Understanding NVS and Code Uploads
Non-Volatile Storage (NVS):

NVS is a partition of the ESP32's flash memory dedicated to storing key-value pairs.
It is separate from the partitions used for your program code (also known as the firmware or application).
Data stored in NVS persists across resets and power cycles.
Code Uploading and Flash Memory:

When you upload new code to the ESP32, the development environment (like the Arduino IDE or PlatformIO) writes the new firmware to the application partition.
The NVS partition is not typically erased or overwritten during standard code uploads.
This means that data stored using the Preferences library remains intact unless explicitly erased.
Exceptions to Persistence
While the NVS data generally persists across code uploads, there are certain scenarios where the data might be erased:

Full Flash Erase:

Some tools or commands can perform a complete flash erase, wiping all partitions, including NVS.
For example, using the esptool.py command-line tool with the erase_flash command:
css
Copy code
esptool.py --chip esp32 erase_flash
Changing the Partition Scheme:

If you modify the partition table (the layout of partitions in flash memory), it can lead to erasure or corruption of NVS data.
This can happen if you select a different partition scheme in your development environment.
Explicitly Erasing NVS:

Some code or functions can programmatically erase the NVS partition.
For example, calling preferences.clear() or preferences.remove("key") can erase specific keys or all data in the namespace.
Flash Modes in Development Environments:

PlatformIO:
By default, PlatformIO does not erase the NVS partition during uploads.
However, if you use the pio run --target erase command, it will perform a full flash erase.
Arduino IDE:
The Arduino IDE typically does not erase NVS during uploads.
Some boards or settings might have an "Erase Flash" option, where you can select to erase all flash, including NVS.
Recommendations
To ensure that your serial number and other data stored in NVS remain intact when rewriting code:

Avoid Full Flash Erase:

Do not use commands or options that perform a full flash erase unless necessary.
Maintain the Same Partition Scheme:

Do not change the partition scheme in your development environment unless required.
In PlatformIO, you can specify the partition scheme in the platformio.ini file. Ensure it remains consistent.
Be Cautious with NVS Functions:

Only use functions like preferences.clear() or preferences.remove() when you intend to erase data.
Check Upload Settings:

PlatformIO:
Ensure that you are using the standard upload command (pio run --target upload).
Avoid using the erase target unless you want to erase the entire flash.
Arduino IDE:
Check the "Erase Flash" setting in the Tools menu and set it to "Only Sketch" or equivalent, not "All Flash Contents."
Verifying Persistence
To confirm that the serial number remains after code uploads:

Initial Upload:

Upload your code and enter the serial number when prompted.
Verify that the serial number is saved and read correctly on subsequent resets.
Code Modification and Re-upload:

Make changes to your code (e.g., add a new feature or modify existing code).
Re-upload the code to the ESP32.
Observe the serial monitor output to confirm that the serial number is still read from storage and not prompting for input.
Testing Erase Scenarios:

If you intentionally perform a full flash erase, note that you will need to re-enter the serial number.
This can be useful for testing how your code handles missing or corrupted NVS data.
Example Scenario
Step 1: Upload the initial code and enter the serial number when prompted.

ruby
Copy code
MAC Address: AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF
Voltage at D34: 1.650 V
Voltage at D35: 0.000 V
Board Type Identified: FabLight
Serial number not found in storage.
Please enter the serial number:
User Input: SN123456

arduino
Copy code
Serial number saved to storage.
Step 2: Reset the ESP32 or power cycle it.

ruby
Copy code
MAC Address: AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF
Voltage at D34: 1.650 V
Voltage at D35: 0.000 V
Board Type Identified: FabLight
Serial number read from storage: SN123456
Step 3: Modify the code (e.g., change a print statement) and re-upload.

ruby
Copy code
MAC Address: AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF
Voltage at D34: 1.650 V
Voltage at D35: 0.000 V
Board Type Identified: FabLight
Serial number read from storage: SN123456
Result: The serial number remains in storage and is read correctly.

Conclusion
Data Persistence: The serial number stored using the Preferences library remains in flash memory across code uploads, resets, and power cycles.
Data Safety: Unless you perform actions that explicitly erase the NVS partition or change the partitioning scheme, your stored data is safe.
Best Practices: Be mindful of the commands and settings used during code uploads to avoid unintended data loss.
Additional Tips
Backup Critical Data: If the serial number or other data is critical, consider implementing a backup mechanism or storing it externally.
Data Validation: Implement checks to validate the integrity of the data read from NVS to handle any potential corruption gracefully.
User Feedback: Provide clear messages to the user in case the serial number needs to be re-entered due to data loss.
References
ESP32 NVS Library Documentation:
The NVS library provides functions for storing and retrieving data in the non-volatile storage.
ESP-IDF Non-Volatile Storage (NVS)
PlatformIO Flashing Documentation:
Details on how flashing works in PlatformIO and how to control flash erase behavior.
PlatformIO ESP32 Flashing
Arduino IDE Flash Settings:
Information on the "Erase Flash" options available in the Arduino IDE for ESP32 boards.
Arduino ESP32 Board Manager
If you have any further questions or need assistance with specific scenarios related to code uploads and data persistence, feel free to ask!